# Service Request Hub

## My Approach on this project

I built this React app using AWS Amplify for authentication and data management. The UI is styled with Material UI (MUI) for responsiveness. Form handling is managed with React Hook Form, and service requests are stored in DynamoDB with unique IDs generated by NanoID. Date calculations are performed using date-fns. Static assets like logos and PDFs are fetched from an S3 bucket for display and download in the app.

## Assumptions:

- Authentication: AWS Amplify will handle user sign-ups, logins, and session management without issues.
- Responsive UI: Material UI (MUI) will make the app look good in most screens.
- Handling forms: React Hook Form will effectively manage form submission and form validation.
- Unique Identifiers: NanoID will generate a new ID for all new service request.
- Date Calculations: date-fns will effectively calculate date manipulations, including determination of resolution date according to severity level.
- Handling static assets: AWS S3 will store and serve static assets such as logos and PDFs effortlessly.
- Storing data: DynamoDB will effectively store service request data, offering scalability and quick access.

## Trade Offs:

Material UI: I used this for its ready-made UI components, which really sped up building a clean and responsive interface. The downside is that it can add a bit of extra weight to the app.
ag-grid: This helped display data in a grid with built-in sorting, filtering, and pagination. It’s great for handling lots of data but is a bit heavier than simpler table solutions.
date-fns: I used it for date calculations, like figuring out the resolution dates. It’s lightweight and straightforward but might require combining a few functions for more complex tasks.
NanoID: I used nanoID for generating unique IDs. Its lightweight and it provides customizable IDs as I wanted to make ids more recognizable using alphanumeric values, but have to keep the IDs length at least 12 digits to avoid duplication chances.

## Project Setup Instructions

## Links:

[GitHub](https://github.com/hasansid158/ServiceRequestHub)

### 1. Clone the Repository

```sh
git clone https://github.com/hasansid158/ServiceRequestHub.git
cd ServiceRequestHub
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```sh
npm install

```

### 3. Install AWS Amplify CLI

```sh
npm install -g @aws-amplify/cli
```

### 4 Configure AWS credentials (for first-time setup)

```sh
amplify configure
```

### 5. Pull the AWS configuration

```sh
amplify pull --appId <your-app-id> --envName dev
```

### 6. Run the Project

```sh
npm start
```
